#   Copyright
#
#	Copyright (C) 2019 Jari Aalto
#
#   License
#
#       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
#       it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
#       the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
#       (at your option) any later version.
#
#       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#       but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
#       GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#       along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
#   Description
#
#	To learn what TOP LEVEL sections to use in manual pages,
#	see POSIX/Susv standard and "Utility Description Defaults" at
#	http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/009695399/utilities/xcu_chap01.html#tag_01_11
#
#	This manual page in Perl POD format. Read more at
#	http://perldoc.perl.org/perlpod.html or run command:
#
#	    perldoc perlpod
#
#	To check the syntax:
#
#	    podchecker *.pod
#
#	To create manual:
#
#	    pod2man FILE.N.pod > FILE.N

=pod

=head1 NAME

ddnd-updater - a generic dynamic DNS (DDNS) update client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ddns-updater [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Program updates IP address to any service that can be updated using
URL calls, provided that a configuration file exists. Templates
are provided with the programs. Examples:

  http://duckdns.org
  http://dns.he.net
  http://ddnss.de
  ....
  (Add your own. See section CONFIGURATION FILES)

To use a new DDNS service provider, consult their URL API
documentation and write respective configurations file. It will be
used next time the program is called.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c, --config NAME>

Without path, the NAME refets to files in configuration directory.
Without path and without the C<.conf> extension, this translates to NAME.conf
in configuration directory. See FILES section.

This option can be supplied multiple times to select configuration
files to run.

=item B<-f, --force>

Force update even if IP is same.

=item B<-l, --list>

List status of configuration files and exit.

=item B<-s, --status>

Show status and exit.

=item B<-S, --syslog>

Send status to syslog. Can only be used by root and only useful from
cron.

=item B<-t, --test, --dry-run>

Run in test mode. No network update.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Display verbose messages.

=item B<-V, --Verson>

Display version information and exit.

=item B<-h, --help>

Display short help.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Update and show progress:

    ddns-updater --verbose

Show status, is update needed?

    ddns-updater --status

Run only one configuration file NAME.conf

    ddns-update --verbose --conf NAME[.conf]

=head1 BUGS

The program does not use non-POSIX featues like getopt(1) to parse
options. Due to lack of proper programing language constructs in POSIX
shell, combining short options in form of B<-vf> is not supported. Use
separate options like in B<-f> B<-i>.

Likewise the equal sign notation is not supported, like in B<-conf=NAME>.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

POSIX

=head1 FILES

=head2 CONFIGURATION FILES

The configuration files are searched from followgin directories.
Only the first one found is used:

  $HOME/.config/ddns-updater
  /etc/ddns-updater

The configuration file requirements are:

  - Must use *.conf extension.
  - Written in POSIX shell.
  - Must defined following variables:

    # The complete Update URL.
    # In the $URL, it's possible to use $WHATSMYIP for the current IP.
    URL=...

    # egrep(1) compatible regexps to check response of the URL call.
    REGEXP_OK=...
    REGEXP_NOCHANGE=...

B<Tip>: to keep track of things, name the configuration files
according to domain names like "mine.duckdns.org.conf"

=head2 CONFIGURATION FILE FOR THE PRORAM

Not required. Possible to adust e.g. C<CULR_OPTIONS> for timeout,
<URL_WHATSMYIP> to query IP etc.

  /etc/defaults/ddns-updater.conf
  $HOME/.ddns-updater

=head2 GENERATED FILES

Written in the CONFIGURATION DIRECTORY.

  00.ip            Last update - ip address
  00.updated       Last update - YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM"

=head1 STANDARDS

None.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

https://github.com/jaalto/project--ddns-updater

=head1 SEE ALSO

ddclient(1)

=head1 AUTHORS

Program was written by <jari.aalto@cante.net>

Released under license GNU GPL version 2 or (at your option) any
later version. For more information about license, visit
<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>.

=cut
